Have you ever seen a channel blow up
overnight and thought, "What are they
doing that I'm not?" Well, when this
happens, it's often for the same reason.
So, today I'm going to show you what
that reason is. I'm going to show you
how I've used this strategy with
businesses to help them go from 25,000
to 300,000 subscribers in a year, and
another one go from 0 to 200,000
subscribers in 12 months. And at the
end, I'm going to show you how to take
what you've learned and apply it to your
own business, too. So, let's start with
the big problem that you have to solve
to get this strategy to work for you. So
most businesses find YouTube hard
because they try to copy other people.
And that's almost a guaranteed fail now
because of the way that YouTube itself
works. You see, YouTube needs to
generate ad revenue by getting people to
watch videos and that's what keeps their
business running. That means the
algorithm has to be very careful about
what it promotes because if a video
pushes viewers away, YouTube's going to
lose some money. So to protect its
business, it stops showing videos that
don't perform and then doubles down on
pushing the ones that do. That means
YouTube's scoring you against every
video your audience might watch to work
out if they give you impressions or if
they give them to someone else. And
there are only two ways to win that
game. Option one is to compete
head-to-head. To do this, you make the
same kind of videos everyone else makes,
hoping to outscore them so you get all
their impressions. But for that to work,
you need a deep understanding of your
avatar. You need great storytelling,
strong frameworks, perfect pacing and
editing, solid research and planning.
You need design skills, psychology
skills, or you just need to get lucky.
But luck is just not a strategy that is
repeatable. So, you will ultimately
fail. Option two, you just use a
strategy that removes the competition
and makes you a niche of one, which is
how all of those businesses I showed you
at the start blew up. And you do that by
finding a gap. A gap is where there's
massive demand but very little supply.
It's basically a space where viewers are
hungry for something and no one's
delivering it that well. When you can
create that situation, you can get more
impressions because you compete against
no one else. So, the strategy the
fastest growing businesses on YouTube
use is filling a gap. But how do you
find a gap? Well, you need to understand
the eight types that exist and then how
to harness them. So, I'm going to break
them all down for you next and then
after I'll give you the formula to get
them to work for you. All right. So, the
first gap style, this is the most common
and the one that most people think is
the only kind of gap that exists, but
it's not. So, here's how it works. So,
I've spoken about Meadow before on the
channel, and her story is fantastic. She
used to make broad self-help content,
and like most people in her niche, she
started out trying to solve multiple
problems on our channel, from confidence
to self-worth. But you can't grow a
channel jumping between so many
different problems like this. So,
realizing this, she asked, "What's the
one problem my clients know they have?"
And it suddenly clicked. The answer was
narcissistic relationships. So, instead
of being another generic self-help
channel, she became the channel that
helps you heal from narcissists. And
because she was great at making videos,
she didn't just fill a gap, she then
dominated it. So this is known as a
topic gap. Now, a topic gap happens when
certain subjects in a niche are in
demand, but they're not covered or are
very poorly covered, and there's a lot
out there, even though they're hard to
find. Now, the next type of gap took
Shray here from less than 500
subscribers to over 400,000 subscribers
in 18 months. And his income is up 7x
what he used to earn as a result. And
this happened because during his
research he found a video that had
millions of views and he showed it to me
and he said, "Do you think I should do
something similar?" And I had a mini
breakdown of excitement and I said,
"Yes,
make that because I could see he found a
gap." And his first video using this new
system got millions of views. But why
did that work? Well, for years, YouTube
was dominated by younger viewers. But
after COVID, older audiences flooded the
platform. So people in their 40s, '50s,
'60s, '7s, and 80s, maybe we had one in
their hundreds, started spending hours a
day on YouTube. Yet very few channels at
the time are making content with them in
mind. So when Shrey designed his video
for that older demographic, things blew
up. This is called an age gap, and there
are still a ton of them out there right
now. Now, our next type of gap took this
channel from zero to 200,000 subscribers
in just 12 months. Now, at the time, the
productivity space on YouTube was
flooded with beginner content. Things
like how to use a notion template or try
time blocking. And this was kind of all
surface level advice people had heard
thousands of times before unless they
would help beginners to the topic. Then
Ran Doris came in and made videos with
deep scientific prolevel insights with
frameworks on how to become more
productive. And he showed the kind of
things his company had helped
billionaires do. And as soon as his
videos hit the platform, they started to
get insane views because Rian filled
what I call a skill gap. The skill gap
happens when an entire niche focuses on
one ability level, usually beginners,
and ignores everyone else. Meaning, if
you're the first to serve that higher or
sometimes lower level, you can own that
gap. Now, the next type of gap most
people are scared of, but it's very
powerful and it's what many of the
biggest personal brands hijack. and all
they do is attack a belief the market
has accepted as true and show people a
different way to think. So I call this a
contrarian gap. Cody Sanchez for example
came into entrepreneurship saying don't
do online buy a boring business which
was the opposite to what was being said
and that got people's ears pricking up.
So these gaps are very powerful because
contrarian ideas do two things at once.
They grab attention because they
challenge what people think to be true
and they build authority because you
seem like the only one who gets it. And
then we have what I call meta gaps. So
in 2024, Charlie Morgan's channel
exploded with these rough, scrappy
looking videos. And people kept
messaging me saying, "Ed, how's this guy
doing this? Look how bad his thumbnails
are." But here's why this happened. So
every few years, the meta on YouTube,
basically what viewers want changes. In
2021 to 2023, the winning formula was
fast-paced retention editing and high
production. But at the start of 2024,
Charlie's video style fell into the meta
gap. Because whilst everyone else was
still obsessing over the old way, he
went a new way that people now actually
craved and made videos with no fluff, no
clickbait, almost no editing, and caught
the new meta right at the start, which
gave him a massive traction fast. What's
cool about meta gaps is I think we're
due another shift in 2026. And with AI
blowing up, it's almost a definite. So
keep your eyes posted on the fastest
growing channels doing things
differently next year. They might be
right in the new meta. Now the next type
of gap was executed beautifully by Chris
do from the future years ago. Now back
then there were already business
channels like value attainment. But
instead of going broad with general
business advice to give everyone. Chris
and his team made one smart decision and
targeted creative professionals
specifically designers looking to grow
their business. What that meant was when
I first found his channel and I had a
creative business I couldn't stop
watching it. Chris felt like he was
talking to every single unique problem I
had. So, I call what Chris did finding a
positioning gap. It's what happens when
every other channel is chasing the same
broad audience with the same broad
problem and you decide to speak to one
with more specific problems instead.
Now, this next gap, it kind of sounds
like a metag gap, but it's not about
following a trend. It's about defying
one. So, back in 2021, I looked around
the YouTube education space and thought,
why does every single person just sit
and talk to camera? Our audience was
creatives like filmmakers, storytellers
and yet no one was showing off
creativity in their videos. So I started
making these videos where I was telling
lots of stories. I was laying in
emotion, story arc, cinematic visuals
and narrative and that was on my old
channel film booth. So whilst everyone
was making education, I made what I
called enterainment and that shift made
my videos stand out in the niche because
the style was so different. Unknown, I'd
caught on to the meta too. So this is
what I call a style gap. and finding it
helped me generate over 30 40 million
views. Now, now a style gap happens when
you express the same ideas as everyone
else in a way that just feels different.
And this can work even if it goes
against the current meta. So, Noah Kagan
did it with his millionaire interviews
instead of just talking head videos. And
this AI channel is doing an incredible
job of making complex tech sink in with
this like documentary style. So, even
though the meta right now is simplicity,
you don't have to follow it. You can
carve out a style gap, too. so long as
it's not cliche. And then our eighth gap
is very simple and it's what I call a
credibility gap. So this is what blew up
Nisha's channel because everyone before
her who was talking about the finance
space was great on camera, people like
Graeme Stefen, but they didn't have a
formal qualification in finance. Whereas
Nisha, she came in with titles like
accountant explains and then very
quickly made her qualifications clear in
her introductions. And that started to
set her apart because before her, people
who were interested in the topic talked
about it. Now it felt like we had really
experienced experts flying in.
Credibility gaps are what people like
Caleb here harnesses cuz he's the guy
with 17 years experience making content
who helped Horoszi and Gary Vee blow up
their personal brands. So when you hear
that in a video, your ears per up
instantly and you're like, I'm going to
get some gamechanging advice from these
probably stuff that's not anywhere else.
So, if you are incredibly credible and
everyone else in your niche is just
talking because they're interested, it's
a big gap to fill. Now, those are the
eight gaps. The question is, how do you
find yourself one? Well, you don't find
one, you create one. And the way you do
that isn't by going after one gap, it's
by attacking three at once. So, let's
use Nisha as an example. Nisha blew up
because she hit three gaps. The first
was the meta gap where she was very
early to the transition between high
production and stripped back, easy to
understand, simple videos. She also hit
the skill gap because she took complex
topics like finance and accounting,
investing and made them really easy for
almost anyone to understand. And then
she hit the credibility gap because she
wasn't just another person talking about
making money. She was a qualified expert
with experience in the city. And if you
don't really understand the current meta
on YouTube and you're still doing what
you were 3 years ago, which a lot of
people are, watch this video next and
I'll show you how to harness the current
meta of making videos that are so simple
they are almost boring.